.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve Avo
title: ''
labels: ''
assignees: ''
---

### Describe the bug
<!--
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.
You can use https://avodemo.herokuapp.com as the base app for the given instructions.
-->

### Steps to Reproduce
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Add this configuration '...'
2. Go to '...'
3. Click on '....'
4. Scroll down to '....'
5. See error

### Expected behavior & Actual behavior
<!-- Tell us what should happen and what happens instead. -->

### Models and resource files
<!-- If it helps with replicating the issue, please add models and resources configuration. -->

### System configuration
**Avo version**:

**Rails version**:

**Ruby version**:

**License type**:
<!-- (Mark [x] inside the brackets) -->

 - [ ] Community
 - [ ] Pro

**Are you using Avo monkey patches or overriding views or view components?**
<!-- (Mark [x] inside the brackets) -->

 - [ ] Yes. If so, please post code samples.
 - [ ] No

### Screenshots or screen recordings
<!-- If applicable, add screenshots or recordings to help explain your problem. -->

### Additional context
<!-- Add any other context about the problem here. -->

#### Impact
<!--
  How much are you impacted by this issue?
  Please set a level of Impact and Urgency
  (Mark [x] inside the brackets)
-->

 - [ ] High impact
 - [ ] Medium impact
 - [ ] Low impact

#### Urgency

 - [ ] High urgency
 - [ ] Medium urgency
 - [ ] low urgency

Commit message:

Chore: support view component v3 by updating slot setter methods to new `with_*` API (#1698)
Co-authored-by: Adrian <adrian@adrianthedev.com>

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve Avo
title: ''
labels: ''
assignees: ''
---

### Describe the bug
<!--
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.
You can use https://avodemo.herokuapp.com as the base app for the given instructions.
-->

### Steps to Reproduce
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Add this configuration '...'
2. Go to '...'
3. Click on '....'
4. Scroll down to '....'
5. See error

### Expected behavior & Actual behavior
<!-- Tell us what should happen and what happens instead. -->

### Models and resource files
<!-- If it helps with replicating the issue, please add models and resources configuration. -->

### System configuration
**Avo version**:

**Rails version**:

**Ruby version**:

**License type**:
<!-- (Mark [x] inside the brackets) -->

 - [ ] Community
 - [ ] Pro

**Are you using Avo monkey patches or overriding views or view components?**
<!-- (Mark [x] inside the brackets) -->

 - [ ] Yes. If so, please post code samples.
 - [ ] No

### Screenshots or screen recordings
<!-- If applicable, add screenshots or recordings to help explain your problem. -->

### Additional context
<!-- Add any other context about the problem here. -->

#### Impact
<!--
  How much are you impacted by this issue?
  Please set a level of Impact and Urgency
  (Mark [x] inside the brackets)
-->

 - [ ] High impact (It makes my app un-usable.)
 - [ ] Medium impact (I'm annoyed, but I'll live.)
 - [ ] Low impact (It's really a tiny thing that I could live with.)

#### Urgency

 - [ ] High urgency (I can't continue development without it.)
 - [ ] Medium urgency (I found a workaround, but I'd love to have it fixed.)
 - [ ] Low urgency (It can wait. I just wanted you to know about it.)
